---
layout: post
title:  The Sad State of JSR-310 Support in JPA 2.2
---

Offically JPA 2.2 supports JSR-310 / Java Date Time API datatypes. In order to evaluate the implementations I created a [GitHub repostory](https://github.com/marschall/state-of-jpa-310).

Before looking at the results it has to be noted that proper JSR-310 support in JDBC applications (and therefore JPA applications as well) can only be achieved with either JDBC 4.2 support and `.getObject(int|String, Class)` or vendor extensions. Proper JSR-310 can not be achieved by relying on the `java.sql` types in JDBC. The original [JPA_SPEC-63](https://github.com/javaee/jpa-spec/issues/63) expanded on this, unfortunately it seems as if this has not made it into the final specification and this is what causes most of the issues.

I have only looked at EclipseLink 2.7.1 and Hibernate 5.3.0.CR1, the only JPA 2.2 implementations I know of.

Hiberante suffers from several issues by design. Hibernate chose not to directly use the `java.time` data types but instead convert through `java.sql` types. This means that:

 * `LocalDateTime` can not handle values that fall into a DST transation in the current JVM time zone
 * `OffsetTime` is truncated from nanoseconds to milliseconds or even seconds
 * `OffsetDateTime` is always converted to the JVM time zone

The Hiberante team has been [made aware](http://in.relation.to/2018/02/20/java8-date-time-mapping/) of these issues but believes the current approach is the right one.

EclipseLink suffers from a variety of issues: 

 * `LocalDateTime` can not handle values that fall into a DST transition in the current JVM time zone
 * `OffsetTime` is truncated from nanoseconds to milliseconds or even seconds on HSQLDB
 * `OffsetDateTime` seems to suffer different issues based on the database:
   * on H2 the conversion between `org.h2.api.TimestampWithTimeZone` and `OffsetDateTime` throws an exception
   * on SQL Server the conversion between  `microsoft.sql.DateTimeOffset` and `OffsetDateTime` throws an exception
   * on HSQLDB the time zone offset seems to be converted to the one from the JVM

Unfortunatley it seems as if JSR-310 in JPA 2.2 is not yet ready for prime time and projects like [threeten-jpa](https://github.com/marschall/threeten-jpa) are still needed. If you plan to use JSR-310 with JPA make sure you have a rigorous test suite in place in order to make sure your entire stack is ready. For inspiration have a look at the tests in [state-of-jpa-310](https://github.com/marschall/state-of-jpa-310/blob/master/src/test/java/com/github/marschall/stateofjpa310/AbstractStateOfJpa310Test.java).

For a list of reported issue see [bug 533912](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=533912) and [HHH-11835](https://hibernate.atlassian.net/browse/HHH-11835).


